Name: Predicting datacenter hard drive failures	
Goal of the project: Classify which hard drives models have high or low reliability
Deliverables: Slides, analysis notebook, and a clear recommendation on what to buy or avoid.
Nice to haves: Analyze multiple quarters/years
Data Source: https://www.backblaze.com/b2/hard-drive-test-data.html


The first row of the each file contains the column names, the remaining rows are the actual data. The columns are as follows:

Date – The date of the file in yyyy-mm-dd format.
Serial Number – The manufacturer-assigned serial number of the drive.
Model – The manufacturer-assigned model number of the drive.
Capacity – The drive capacity in bytes.
Failure – Contains a “0” if the drive is OK. Contains a “1” if this is the last day the drive was operational before failing.
2013-2014 SMART Stats – 80 columns of data, that are the Raw and Normalized values for 40 different SMART stats as reported by the given drive. Each value is the number reported by the drive.
2015-2017 SMART Stats – 90 columns of data, that are the Raw and Normalized values for 45 different SMART stats as reported by the given drive. Each value is the number reported by the drive.
2018 (Q1) SMART Stats – 100 columns of data, that are the Raw and Normalized values for 50 different SMART stats as reported by the given drive. Each value is the number reported by the drive.
2018 (Q2) SMART Stats – 104 columns of data, that are the Raw and Normalized values for 52 different SMART stats as reported by the given drive. Each value is the number reported by the drive.
2018 (Q4) SMART Stats – 124 columns of data, that are the Raw and Normalized values for 62 different SMART stats as reported by the given drive. Each value is the number reported by the drive.

import os
print os.path.abspath("something.exe")


Identify indicators of reliability (ave failure rate, power on hours)
Use indicators to identify models with high and low reliability

Yesterday 
project planning as a group
Set goals for project
Determined goal for model:to predict early failures using black blaze data features as determined by hard drive hours 


Resume blurb
Determine what will be included in the mvp along with the model
Explore date sound the most recent year decided among the four of us by quarter
Work on preparation 
Lookover smart atributes (core 5 + smart_9)
Determine cutoffs for early failures


SMART 5 – Reallocated_Sector_Count.

Hd attempts to read/write/manage data in a sector and gets an error
Data is then moved to another sector and old sector is no longer used for storage

There is no fix

0 is good anything else is bad higher numbers are worse
=>1 indicates that the drive is dying
May still run for years but risk of failure is high

https://harddrivegeek.com/reallocated-sector-count/


SMART 187 – Reported_Uncorrectable_Errors.

errors that could not be recovered using hardware ECC (error-correcting code).

0 is good anything else is bad high numbers are worse

https://www.backblaze.com/blog/hard-drive-smart-stats/


SMART 188 – Command_Timeout.

parameter indicates a number of aborted operations due to hard disk timeout.

This is a critical parameter. Degradation of this parameter may indicate serious problems with power supply or an oxidized data cable. Urgent data backup and hardware replacement is recommended.

0 good 1+ very bad


SMART 197 – Current_Pending_Sector_Count.

0 good 1 bad can fluctuate

Current Pending Sector Count S.M.A.R.T. parameter is a critical parameter and indicates the current count of unstable sectors (waiting for remapping). The raw value of this attribute indicates the total number of sectors waiting for remapping. Later, when some of these sectors are read successfully, the value is decreased. If errors still occur when reading some sector, the hard drive will try to restore the data, transfer it to the reserved disk area (spare area) and mark this sector as remapped.

Please also consult your machines's or hard disks documentation.

Recommendations
This is a critical parameter. Degradation of this parameter may indicate imminent drive failure. Urgent data backup and hardware replacement is recommended.


SMART 198 – Offline_Uncorrectable.

0 good 1 very bad

Uncorrectable Sector Count S.M.A.R.T. parameter is a critical parameter and indicates the quantity of uncorrectable errors. The raw value of this attribute indicates the total number of uncorrectable errors when reading/writing a sector.


Lifespan of a hard drive
3-5 
https://www.prosofteng.com/blog/how-long-do-hard-drives-last




Annual failure rate

Failure rate dramatically increases just before three years recommend using three years or just before as cutoff for early failures

https://www.prosofteng.com/blog/how-long-do-hard-drives-last
https://www.backblaze.com/blog/how-long-do-disk-drives-last/


2013 Smart  1, 5, 9, 194, 197,

SMART 1 Read Error Rate

0 is good
The raw value has different structure for different vendors

All others are poor 
S.M.A.R.T. parameter indicates the rate of hardware read errors that occurred when reading data from a disk surface. Any value differing from zero means there is a problem with the disk surface, read/write heads (including crack on a head, broken head, head contamination, head resonance, bad connection to electronics module, handling damage). The higher parameter’s value is, the more the hard disk failure is possible.

SMART 5
Core Stat

SMART 9 Count of hours in power-on state (target variable)

SMART 194


SMART 197

